---
layout: default
title: Project Description
permalink: /index.html
---
<h4>Objective:</h4>
The goal of this project is to construct [a model](/keyboard.nnsim) (built using [nnsim](/nnsim1.jar))
which accurately explains and predicts aspects of typing skill acquisition.<br>
<h4>Summary:</h4>
This project consists of: (1) building and using a platform to collect test data of
keyboard skill acquisition, (2) constructing a model of the keyboard learning process,
(3) tuning model parameters to fit data and assessing their accuracy in modeling differing tasks, 
and (4) using observations about model behavior to assess current keyboard learning methodologies.
<br>
<h4>Model demonstration:</h4>
This project has two key deliverables: the keyboarding task test platform and the keyboarding model.

The keyboarding task platform will be a web-based tool which displays a sequence of symbols, collects
user key press responses, and (optionally) presents the user with keying accuracy feedback. This will
be constructed using an HTML5/Javascript front-end task communicating results to a remote database via AJAX. The 
advantage of this approach is that tasks can be completed remotely on any computing platform by many
users simultaneously.

The initial keyboarding model will be constructed using the NNSim framework. NNSim will be used to play with
different neural network topologies, update rules and functionally important model parameters. The behavior
of this model will be tuned with intuition about key learning behavior. Time permitting, a version of the
model may be constructed which can interact with the keyboarding task platform, modeling the
test subject's current knowledge state in real time. Depending on the flexibility and update rule required by the model,
pre-built neural network packages such as <a href="http://harthur.github.com/brain/">brain.js</a> may be used.

<h4>Relevant literature:</h4>
<ul>
  <li><a href="http://aaai.org/AITopics/IntelligentTutoringSystems">AIII overview of intelligent tutors</a></li>
  <li><a href="http://books.google.com/books?id=VZMAAAAAMAAJ">The Psychology of Skill, with Special Reference to its Acquisition in Typewriting (1908)</a></li>
  <li><a href="http://harthur.github.com/brain/">Brain.js, neural network platform</a></li>
</ul>
<h4>Milestones:</h4>
<dl>
<dt>11/01:</dt>
<dd>Client-side portion of keyboarding task able to prompt and 
record key-presses (timing and key). At least one attempt at model 
constructed. <span class="update">Update: Simple model laid out using NNSIM, investigation into client-side task framework begun.</span></dd>

<dt>11/08:</dt>
<dd>Server-side portion of keyboarding task built, able to 
collect task data. NNSim model complete and some experimentation has 
been performed with it.
<span class="update">Update: Still working on client-side portion of task framework, now displaying stimuli, collecting keystrokes and timings.</span></dd>

<dt>11/15:</dt><dd>Keyboarding task platform maturing, begin rounds of data 
collection for varying tasks. Model being tweaked as task data comes in.

<span class="update">Update: Began working on server-side of task, tweaking task. Experimenting with NNSIM training functionality and using grouped IAC units. Possibly meeting next week for help training in NNSIM.</span></dd>

<dt>11/22:</dt><dd>New tasks conceived of and completed. Model being tweaked to accommodate different task results.
<span class="update">Update: Found <a href="http://www-personal.umich.edu/~yililiu/Wu-Liu-TOCHI-typing-2008.pdf">useful paper</a></span></dd>

<dt>11/29:</dt><dd>Model performance assessed, begin experimenting with model to
make predictions about keyboard learning. Begin building version
of model suitable for integration with keyboarding task platform.</dd>

<dt>12/06:</dt><dd>Perform experiments with task platform, further assess model. Prepare presentation.w</dd>
</dl>